<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Acknowledgments</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter">
		<section id="acknowledgements" epub:type="acknowledgments">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Acknowledgments</h2>
			<p>The first outline of this book dates back ten years; and since then I have woven it and rewoven it in my mind. The actual work of composition was started by a suggestion from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Van Wyck Brooks; and without <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brooks’ encouragement I should perhaps never have begun or carried through the task. The general background of ideas has been heavily colored by my contacts with Professor Patrick Geddes, through his books and by correspondence; and I owe a debt to him I have not always been able to acknowledge in direct reference or in quotation marks. I take the opportunity here to express the hearty gratitude which might otherwise have been conveyed in the more archaic form of a dedication.</p>
			<p>In the revision of the <abbr>MS.</abbr> I have been blessed with the generous advice and criticism of a number of friends; in particular, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clarence Britten, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Herbert Feis, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Geroid Robinson, and Miss Sophia Wittenberg, each of whom performed a unique service. To <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Victor Branford and Alexander Farquharson of the Sociological Society of Great Britain I am indebted for many pertinent suggestions. My thanks are also due to the editors of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">The Freeman</i> for permission to use extracts from two articles: “Towards a Humanist Synthesis” and “Beauty and the Picturesque”. Finally, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hendrik van Loon’s friendly interest calls for a departing beam of gratitude.</p>
			<footer>
				<p epub:type="z3998:sender">Lewis Mumford.</p>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">New York City,</p>
				<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline"><time datetime="1922-07">July, 1922</time>.</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
